I'm going to keep you on hold.
I'm going to connect you across to the city and the line.
I'm going to draw a few.
If you have questions, I would like to attend to that.
What is the significance of holding a shunya kha or emptiness of breath and kumbaka or fullness of breath
in yogic practices?
So, what is this kumbaka I'm assuming?
There are many aspects to this.
If you ask a regular technical kind of orphan,
they will measure things in your system and tell you this directly,
and carbon dioxide is more balanced to that.
That's why you keep your energy safe and stuff like that.
It's true, but that's not the reason why you hold kumbaka.
You must understand breath.
Breath is a certain dimension of activity which is happening not because of you, but by the way.
When I say in five of you, you must understand when you create emotions, when you create thoughts,
you will see breath patterns will change because there are many emotions which want your breath to stop.
If people experience fear, they become breathless because when emotion has fear comes,
the rest of the body wants to die immediately because he wants to disappear in some way.
So, you don't actually die, but you become breathless which is indicative that
the body wanted to stop, but the natural longing to live will make you breathe rapidly thinking
or kind of thinking or drowning into something.
The various aspects of your class will now be specifically asking about kumbaka.
This is a dialogic campaign that one will observe when you move through situations like,
I mean, this is coming to me today, somebody will mention it.
Like there were situations where, you know, a few months ago, I got an opportunity to drive somewhere where
we were racing a car over 3 and 33 and 40 kilometers per hour.
And when this came up, the person was 59 to me, just said,
suddenly, even at this speed you're just smiling and talking to me.
You shouldn't be doing this.
I said, what's my smile and talk?
What do you do with my driving?
He said, when I drive, anywhere over a certain speed, my heart rate goes out,
my pulse rate goes out, my blood pressure will be out.
Everything will be out.
And that is the ex-emulation that you enjoy.
You don't seem to enjoy anything.
Because my blood pressure is a little too tough, because I don't fret and fret.
Does it mean to say you don't enjoy anything?
Your ability to enjoy is greatly enhanced if there is a requirement in you.
The Kumbarke and Sjungjika brings this dimension to you that the external secret is
will not cause any imbalance in the system.
People think the high that you can get on life is all about adrenaline.
Adrenaline is an interference.
Adrenaline enters your blood stream because you think or your body thinks
that you have entered into an dangerous situation.
Adrenaline is the fundamental of the fight or flight response.
When you perceive some danger, you have to either fight or flight.
Suppose you were in the jungle when a tiger came and you either have to fight it
or you have to run away from it.
These are the only two options.
This is a reactionary or a very effective option, but other options is to do something smart,
something intelligent, which should be the way of the human being.
And that is only available to you when your body has an entity.
When your body is right in you, it's your mind, emotion, energy, everything.
The body within you, the body that you have of food, mental, memory and energy
and whatever is body does not react anymore.
It responds whichever way you want, but it does not react.
One of the important aspects of Kumbhakash
is the energy where it is not reactive.
You can respond whichever way you want, but extremely similar it doesn't react.
A certain calmness and coolness enter the system.
And it is because of this that you don't drive your system at a very high rate of let's say RPM.
That is everything is enough enough.
Because of this the body suffers in so many ways because of this ability to serve will be curtailed.
And it's like also will be curtailed because of this.
The other dimensions of Kumbhakash and Sarmyaka are Kumbhakash enhances your energy.
Energy includes my energy, intelligence and perception. You can handle all these aspects by holding Kumbhakash.
The instructions are always telling you not by force but by slowly increasing the capacity of the system.
Sarmyaka has more significant spiritual benefits in the sense.
The sense of individuality is broken or in Sarmyaka.
The borderline of who I am is kind of over a period of time dissipates by holding Sarmyaka with this dissipation surely.
In a very natural way without any bang bang happening slowly to dissolve your boundaries
and a certain sense of individuality just grips into you without even you noticing it.
So Kumbhakash Sarmyaka has physiological, psychological and spiritual dimensions to it and energy dimensions to it.
If you are able to dissolve the boundaries through Sarmyaka, then the enhancement of your own energy through Kumbhakash
will create a huge presence. If you enter a place, you can feel it.
That there is a huge presence for the person because this presence is important.
The reason why people are talking as much as they are talking, people are even talking looking up to the sky and talking to the God that they believe in
because there is no presence.
This is a transformation that needs to happen to an individual human being that you have to move from prayer to presence.
If you understand the presence of existence, how strong it is and how what to say, how obel
that is all the time present, it is because of this presence everything is happening.
And once you have a presence of a certain order, once you have a presence of a certain significance or intensity,
you will see it is not any different from the presence, the entire existence is always soaked in.
Once you know this by experience, then there you don't know who the hell you are because who you are and what everything is becomes one.
